README.md, before:

# ESPbreakout
## Overview
ESPbreakout is a breakout board for the popular ESP32-s3  chip that includes many breakout pins, compatible with any other ESP32 setup (for the most part), and has programming via USB 2.0.
This board uses the ESP32-S3 SOC, which means that it does not use any of the modules that espressif has already made, and just the bare ESP32-S3 chip.
This board includes pins for progamming, a USB-C port (for programming & power), a screw terminal to convenient wire up a Lithium battery to (3.7v). And you can also utilize the PSRAM that I added externally onto the board. The board includes comprehensive labels for buttons and pins, for ease of use. The cost and materials used to manafacture/make this board are in the BOM.csv file.

## Intent behind making this board:
I made this board to showcase what I already know, and to learn a lot of new things (I can say that this one was accomplished). I also made this board to act as a substitute for the ESP32-S3 devboard that exists, and of course it wont be better than the board made by the actual company, Espressif, but it will be pretty decent and working!

## Pictures
<img width="548" height="674" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a4f1527a-d4bd-44ec-9e7a-1c9cea021206" />
<img width="353" height="696" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ca53b68c-c219-468e-9608-80475791f9cd" />
<img width="1076" height="685" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/56ae9bb1-3af3-482b-a262-22f67b138000" />
(Pictures of the built version will be added once I get all the components and solder what needs to be soldered, for the most part this is PCBA though.)

| Reference | Quantity | Part                                                   | Unit Price | Extended Price                                                                                                                                        |
| --------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------ | ---------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| PCBA      | 1        | PCBA Estimate                                          | $114.00    | $107.59                                                                                                                                              |
| B1        | 1        | TinyCircuits BATTERY LITH-ION 3.7V 1AH                 | $9.95      | $9.95                                                                                                                                                 |
| C1        | 1        | Pololu 2PIN F JST PH-STYLE CABLE 12CM                  | $1.47      | $1.47                                                                                                                                                 |
| J1        | 3        | Sullins Connector Solutions CONN HDR 4POS 0.1 GOLD PCB | $0.38      | $1.14                                                                                                                                                 |
| J2        | 1        | Phoenix Contact TERM BLK 2POS SIDE ENTRY 5MM PCB       | $0.78      | $0.78                                                                                                                                                 |
| **Total** |          |                                                        |            | **$137.00 (about 5 – 10 extra added, but anything not used will obviously be returned, this is just buffer as pcb part prices can change with pcba, this is with tax added )** |

## Cart screenshots
<img width="1439" height="943" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8624c341-3d77-45fc-994a-085e9256dcdf" />
<img width="1522" height="681" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9da9a3c2-51cb-4c56-a43e-a05c9d2cf8bf" />

Commit message:

Revise component pricing and total in README
Updated component prices and total cost in the README.

README.md, after:

# ESPbreakout
## Overview
ESPbreakout is a breakout board for the popular ESP32-s3  chip that includes many breakout pins, compatible with any other ESP32 setup (for the most part), and has programming via USB 2.0.
This board uses the ESP32-S3 SOC, which means that it does not use any of the modules that espressif has already made, and just the bare ESP32-S3 chip.
This board includes pins for progamming, a USB-C port (for programming & power), a screw terminal to convenient wire up a Lithium battery to (3.7v). And you can also utilize the PSRAM that I added externally onto the board. The board includes comprehensive labels for buttons and pins, for ease of use. The cost and materials used to manafacture/make this board are in the BOM.csv file.

## Intent behind making this board:
I made this board to showcase what I already know, and to learn a lot of new things (I can say that this one was accomplished). I also made this board to act as a substitute for the ESP32-S3 devboard that exists, and of course it wont be better than the board made by the actual company, Espressif, but it will be pretty decent and working!

## Pictures
<img width="548" height="674" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a4f1527a-d4bd-44ec-9e7a-1c9cea021206" />
<img width="353" height="696" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ca53b68c-c219-468e-9608-80475791f9cd" />
<img width="1076" height="685" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/56ae9bb1-3af3-482b-a262-22f67b138000" />
(Pictures of the built version will be added once I get all the components and solder what needs to be soldered, for the most part this is PCBA though.)

| Reference | Quantity | Part                                                   | Unit Price | Extended Price |
| --------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------ | ---------- | -------------- |
| PCBA      | 1        | PCBA Estimate                                          | $52.55     | $52.55         |
| B1        | 1        | TinyCircuits BATTERY LITH-ION 3.7V 1AH                 | $9.95      | $9.95          |
| C1        | 1        | Pololu 2PIN F JST PH-STYLE CABLE 12CM                  | $1.47      | $1.47          |
| J1        | 3        | Sullins Connector Solutions CONN HDR 4POS 0.1 GOLD PCB | $0.38      | $1.14          |
| J2        | 1        | Phoenix Contact TERM BLK 2POS SIDE ENTRY 5MM PCB       | $0.78      | $0.78          |
| **Total** |          |                                                        |            | **$71.89**     |

Note: $6.00 of buffer is added for shipping or tariff changes. Any unused buffer will be returned.

## Cart screenshots
<img width="1437" height="648" alt="Screenshot 2025-11-01 at 11 53 29 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0e2755ed-617e-49c3-af2e-44f0c692a4bf" />
<img width="1531" height="903" alt="Screenshot 2025-11-01 at 12 08 29 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/68c3818a-f660-4c03-a317-d10051f999db" />
